
Transcriber's Note:

A book catalogue published in 1868 as a part of The Handy Horse-Book
by Maurice Hartland Mahon. The sections have been re-ordered to place
the main catalogue first.




CATALOGUE
OF
MESSRS BLACKWOOD AND SONS'
_PUBLICATIONS_.


 _HISTORY OF EUROPE_,
    From the Commencement of the French Revolution in 1789 to the Battle
    of Waterloo. BY SIR ARCHIBALD ALISON, Bart., D.C.L.

       A NEW LIBRARY EDITION (being the Tenth), in 14 vols. demy 8vo,
       with Portraits, and a copious Index, £10, 10s.

       ANOTHER EDITION, in Crown 8vo, 20 vols., £6.

       A PEOPLE'S EDITION, 12 vols., closely printed in double columns,
       £2, 8s., and Index Volume, 3s.

"An extraordinary work, which has earned for itself a lasting place in
the literature of the country, and within a few years found innumerable
readers in every part of the globe. There is no book extant that treats
so well of the period to the illustration of which Mr Alison's labours
have been devoted. It exhibits great knowledge, patient research,
indefatigable industry, and vast power."--_Times, Sept. 7, 1850._


 _CONTINUATION OF ALISON'S HISTORY OF EUROPE_,
    From the Fall of Napoleon to the Accession of Louis Napoleon. By SIR
    ARCHIBALD ALISON, Bart., D.C.L. In 9 vols., £6, 7s. 6d. Uniform with
    the Library Edition of the previous work.

       A PEOPLE'S EDITION, in 8 vols., closely printed in double
       columns, £1, 14s.


 _EPITOME OF ALISON'S HISTORY OF EUROPE._
    For the Use of Schools and Young Persons. Fifteenth Edition, 7s.
    6d., bound.


 _ATLAS TO ALISON'S HISTORY OF EUROPE_;
    Containing 109 Maps and Plans of Countries, Battles, Sieges, and
    Sea-Fights. Constructed by A. KEITH JOHNSTON, F.R.S.E. With
    Vocabulary of Military and Marine Terms. Demy 4to. Library Edition,
    £3, 3s.; People's Edition, Crown 4to, £1, 11s. 6d.


 _LIVES OF LORD CASTLEREAGH AND SIR CHARLES
    STEWART_, Second and Third Marquesses of Londonderry. From the
    Original Papers of the Family, and other sources. By SIR ARCHIBALD
    ALISON, Bart., D.C.L. In 3 vols. 8vo, £2, 5s.


 _ANNALS OF THE PENINSULAR CAMPAIGNS._
    By CAPT. THOMAS HAMILTON. A New Edition. Edited by F. HARDMAN, Esq.
    8vo, 16s.; and Atlas of Maps to illustrate the Campaigns, 12s.


 _A VISIT TO FLANDERS AND THE FIELD OF WATERLOO._
    By JAMES SIMPSON, Advocate. A Revised Edition. With Two Coloured
    Plans of the Battle. Crown 8vo, 5s.


 _WELLINGTON'S CAREER_:
    A Military and Political Summary. By LIEUT.-COL. E. BRUCE HAMLEY,
    Professor of Military History and Art at the Staff College. Crown
    8vo, 2s.


 _THE STORY OF THE CAMPAIGN OF SEBASTOPOL._
    Written in the Camp. By LIEUT.-COL. E. BRUCE HAMLEY. With
    Illustrations drawn in Camp by the Author. 8vo, 21s.

"We strongly recommend this 'Story of the Campaign' to all who would
gain a just comprehension of this tremendous struggle. Of this we are
perfectly sure, it is a book unlikely to be ever superseded. Its truth
is of that simple and startling character which is sure of an immortal
existence; nor is it paying the gallant author too high a complement to
class this masterpiece of military history with the most precious of
those classic records which have been bequeathed to us by the great
writers of antiquity who took part in the wars they have
described."--_The Press._


 _THE INVASION OF THE CRIMEA_:
    Its Origin, and Account of its Progress down to the Death of Lord
    Raglan. By ALEXANDER WILLIAM KINGLAKE, M.P. Vols. I. and II.,
    bringing the Events down to the Close of the Battle of the Alma.
    Fourth Edition. Price 32s.


 _TEN YEARS OF IMPERIALISM IN FRANCE._
    Impressions of a "Flâneur." Second Edition. In 8vo, price 9s.

"There has not been published for many a day a more remarkable book on
France than this, which professes to be the impressions of a Flaneur....
It has all the liveliness and sparkle of a work written only for
amusement; it has all the solidity and weight of a State paper; and we
expect for it not a little political influence as a fair, full, and
masterly statement of the Imperial policy--the first and only good
account that has been given to Europe of the Napoleonic system now in
force."--_Times._


 _FLEETS AND NAVIES._
    By CAPTAIN CHARLES HAMLEY, R.M. Originally published in 'Blackwood's
    Magazine.' Crown 8vo, 6s.


 _HISTORY OF GREECE UNDER FOREIGN DOMINATION._
    By GEORGE FINLAY, LL.D., Athens--viz.:

       GREECE UNDER THE ROMANS. B.C. 146 to A.D. 717. A Historical View
       of the Condition of the Greek Nation from its Conquest by the
       Romans until the Extinction of the Roman Power in the East.
       Second Edition, 16s.

       HISTORY OF THE BYZANTINE EMPIRE, A.D. 716 to 1204; and of the
       Greek Empire of Nicæa and Constantinople, A.D. 1204 to 1453. 2
       vols., £1, 7s. 6d.

       MEDIEVAL GREECE AND TREBIZOND. The History of Greece, from its
       Conquest by the Crusaders to its Conquest by the Turks, A.D. 1204
       to 1566; and the History of the Empire of Trebizond, A.D. 1204 to
       1461. 12s.

       GREECE UNDER OTHOMAN AND VENETIAN DOMINATION.  A.D. 1453 to 1821.
       10s. 6d.

       HISTORY OF THE GREEK REVOLUTION. 2 vols. 8vo, £1, 4s.

"His book is worthy to take its place among the remarkable works on
Greek history, which form one of the chief glories of English
scholarship. The history of Greece is but half told without
it."--_London Guardian._


 _THE NATIONAL CHARACTER OF THE ATHENIANS._
    By JOHN BROWN PATTERSON. Edited from the Author's revision, by
    PROFESSOR PILLANS, of the University of Edinburgh. With a Sketch of
    his Life. Crown 8vo, 4s. 6d.


 _STUDIES IN ROMAN LAW._
    With Comparative Views of the Laws of France, England, and Scotland.
    By LORD MACKENZIE, one of the Judges of the Court of Session in
    Scotland. 8vo, 12s. Second Edition.

"We know not in the English language where else to look for a history of
the Roman law so clear, and, at the same time, so short.... More
improving reading, both for the general student and for the lawyer, we
cannot well imagine; and there are few, even among learned professional
men, who will not gather some novel information from Lord Mackenzie's
simple pages."--_London Review._


 _THE EIGHTEEN CHRISTIAN CENTURIES._
    By the REV. JAMES WHITE. Fourth Edition, with an Analytical Table of
    Contents, and a Copious Index. Post 8vo, 7s. 6d.


 _THE MONKS OF THE WEST_,
    From St Benedict to St Bernard. By the COUNT DE MONTALEMBERT.
    Authorised Translation. 5 vols. 8vo, £2 12s. 6d.


 _HISTORY OF FRANCE_,
    From the Earliest Period to the Year 1848. By the REV. JAMES WHITE,
    Author of 'The Eighteen Christian Centuries.' School Edition. Post
    8vo, 6s.

"An excellent and comprehensive compendium of French history, quite
above the standard of a school-book, and particularly well adapted for
the libraries of literary institutions."--_National Review._


 _LEADERS OF THE REFORMATION_:
    LUTHER, CALVIN, LATIMER, and KNOX. By the REV. JOHN TULLOCH, D.D.,
    Principal, and Primarius Professor of Theology, St Mary's College,
    St Andrews. Second Edition, Crown 8vo, 6s. 6d.


 _ENGLISH PURITANISM AND ITS LEADERS_:
    CROMWELL, MILTON, BAXTER, and BUNYAN. By the REV. JOHN TULLOCH, D.D.
    Uniform with the 'Leaders of the Reformation.' 7s. 6d.


 _HISTORY OF THE FRENCH PROTESTANT REFUGEES._
    By CHARLES WEISS, Professor of History at the Lycée Buonaparte.
    Translated by F. HARDMAN, Esq. 8vo, 14s.


 _HISTORY OF THE CHURCH OF SCOTLAND_,
    From the Reformation to the Revolution Settlement. By the Very REV.
    JOHN LEE, D.D., LL.D., Principal of the University of Edinburgh.
    Edited by the Rev. WILLIAM LEE. 2 vols. 8vo, 21s.


 _HISTORY OF SCOTLAND FROM THE REVOLUTION_
    To the Extinction of the last Jacobite Insurrection, 1689-1748. By
    JOHN HILL BURTON, Esq., Advocate. 2 vols. 8vo, reduced to 15s.


 _LIVES OF THE QUEENS OF SCOTLAND_,
    And English Princesses connected with the Regal Succession of Great
    Britain. By AGNES STRICKLAND. With Portraits and Historical
    Vignettes. Post 8vo, £4, 4s.

"Every step in Scotland is historical: the shades of the dead arise on
every side; the very rocks breathe. Miss Strickland's talents as a
writer, and turn of mind as an individual, in a peculiar manner fit her
for painting a historical gallery of the most illustrious or dignified
female characters in that land of chivalry and song."--_Blackwood's
Magazine._


 _MEMORIALS OF THE CASTLE OF EDINBURGH._
    By JAMES GRANT, Esq. A New Edition. In Crown 8vo, with 12
    Engravings, 3s. 6d.


 _MEMOIRS OF SIR WILLIAM KIRKALDY OF GRANGE_,
    Governor of the Castle of Edinburgh for Mary Queen of Scots. By
    JAMES GRANT, Esq. Post 8vo, 10s. 6d.


 _MEMOIRS OF SIR JOHN HEPBURN_,
    Marshal of France under Louis XIII., &c. By JAMES GRANT, Esq. Post
    8vo, 8s.


 _WORKS OF THE REV. THOMAS M'CRIE, D.D._
    A New and Uniform Edition. Edited by Professor M'CRIE. 4 vols. Crown
    8vo, 24s. Sold separately--viz.:

       LIFE OF JOHN KNOX. Containing Illustrations of the History of the
       Reformation in Scotland. Crown 8vo, 6s.

       LIFE OF ANDREW MELVILLE. Containing Illustrations of the
       Ecclesiastical and Literary History of Scotland in the Sixteenth
       and Seventeenth Centuries. Crown 8vo, 6s.

       HISTORY OF THE PROGRESS AND SUPPRESSION OF THE REFORMATION IN
       ITALY IN THE SIXTEENTH CENTURY. Crown 8vo, 4s.

       HISTORY OF THE PROGRESS AND SUPPRESSION OF THE REFORMATION IN
       SPAIN IN THE SIXTEENTH CENTURY. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.


 _THE BOSCOBEL TRACTS_;
    Relating to the Escape of Charles the Second after the Battle of
    Worcester, and his subsequent Adventures. Edited by J. HUGHES, Esq.,
    A.M. A New Edition, with additional Notes and Illustrations,
    including Communications from the Rev. R. H. BARHAM, Author of the
    'Ingoldsby Legends.' In 8vo, with Engravings, 16s.

"'The Boscobel Tracts' is a very curious book, and about as good an
example of single subject historical collections as may be found.
Originally undertaken, or at least completed, at the suggestion of the
late Bishop Copplestone, in 1827, it was carried out with a degree of
judgment and taste not always found in works of a similar
character."--_Spectator._


 _LIFE OF JOHN DUKE OF MARLBOROUGH._
    With some Account of his Contemporaries, and of the War of the
    Succession. By SIR ARCHIBALD ALISON, Bart., D.C.L. Third Edition. 2
    vols. 8vo, Portraits and Maps, 30s.


 _THE NEW 'EXAMEN;'_
    Or, An Inquiry into the Evidence of certain Passages in 'Macaulay's
    History of England' concerning--THE DUKE OF MARLBOROUGH--THE
    MASSACRE OF GLENCOE--THE HIGHLANDS OF SCOTLAND--VISCOUNT
    DUNDEE--WILLIAM PENN. By John Paget, Esq., Barrister-at-Law. In
    Crown 8vo, 6s.

"We certainly never saw a more damaging exposure, and it is something
worth notice that much of it appeared in 'Blackwood's Magazine' during
the lifetime of Lord Macaulay, but he never attempted to make any reply.
The charges are so direct, and urged in such unmistakable language, that
no writer who valued his character for either accuracy of fact or
fairness in comment would let them remain unanswered if he had any
reason to give."--_Gentleman's Magazine._


 _AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF THE REV. DR CARLYLE_,
    Minister of Inveresk. Containing Memorials of the Men and Events of
    his Time. Edited by JOHN HILL BURTON. In 8vo. Third Edition, with
    Portrait, 14s.

"This book contains by far the most vivid picture of Scottish life and
manners that has been given to the public since the days of Sir Walter
Scott. In bestowing upon it this high praise, we make no exception, not
even in favour of Lord Cockburn's 'Memorials'--the book which resembles
it most, and which ranks next to it in interest."--_Edinburgh Review._


 _MEMOIR OF THE POLITICAL LIFE OF EDMUND BURKE._
    With Extracts from his Writings. By the REV. GEORGE CROLY, D.D. 2
    vols. post 8vo, 18s.


 _CURRAN AND HIS CONTEMPORARIES._
    By CHARLES PHILLIPS, Esq., A.B. A New Edition. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

"Certainly one of the most extraordinary pieces of biography ever
produced.... No library should be without it."--_Lord Brougham._

"Never, perhaps, was there a more curious collection of portraits
crowded before into the same canvass."--_Times._


 _MEMOIR OF MRS HEMANS._
    By her SISTER. With a Portrait. Fcap. 8vo, 5s.


 _LIFE OF THE LATE REV. JAMES ROBERTSON, D.D., F.R.S.E._,
    Professor of Divinity and Ecclesiastical History in the University
    of Edinburgh. By the REV. A. H. CHARTERIS, M.A., Minister of
    Newabbey. With a Portrait. 8vo, price 10s. 6d.


 _ESSAYS; HISTORICAL, POLITICAL, AND MISCELLANEOUS._
    By SIR ARCHIBALD ALISON, Bart. 3 vols. demy 8vo, 45s.


 _ESSAYS IN HISTORY AND ART._
    By R. H. PATTERSON. Viz.:

       COLOUR IN NATURE AND ART--REAL AND IDEAL
       BEAUTY--SCULPTURE--ETHNOLOGY OF EUROPE--UTOPIAS--OUR INDIAN
       EMPIRE--THE NATIONAL LIFE OF CHINA--AN IDEAL ART-CONGRESS--BATTLE
       OF THE STYLES--GENIUS AND LIBERTY--YOUTH AND SUMMER--RECORDS OF
       THE PAST: NINEVEH AND BABYLON--INDIA: ITS CASTES AND
       CREEDS--"CHRISTOPHER NORTH:" IN MEMORIAM. In 1 vol. 8vo, 12s.


 _NORMAN SINCLAIR._
    By W. E. AYTOUN, D.C.L., Author of 'Lays of the Scottish Cavaliers,'
    &c. In 3 vols. post 8vo, 31s. 6d.


 _THE OLD BACHELOR IN THE OLD SCOTTISH VILLAGE._
    By THOMAS AIRD. Fcap. 8vo, 4s.


 _SIR EDWARD BULWER LYTTON'S NOVELS._
    Library Edition. Printed from a large and readable type. In Volumes
    of a convenient and handsome form. 8vo, 5s. each--viz.:

    THE CAXTON NOVELS, 10 Volumes:
        The Caxton Family. 2 vols.
        My Novel. 4 vols.
        What will he do with it? 4 vols.

    HISTORICAL ROMANCES, 11 Volumes:
        Devereux. 2 vols.
        The Last Days of Pompeii. 2 vols.
        Rienzi. 2 vols.
        The Siege of Grenada. 1 vol.
        The Last of the Barons. 2 vols.
        Harold. 2 vols.

    ROMANCES, 5 Volumes:
        The Pilgrims of the Rhine. 1 vol.
        Eugene Aram. 2 vols.
        Zanoni. 2 vols.

    NOVELS OF LIFE AND MANNERS, 15 Volumes:
        Pelham. 2 vols.
        The Disowned. 2 vols.
        Paul Clifford. 2 vols.
        Godolphin  1 vol.
        Ernest Maltravers--First Part. 2 vols.
        Ernest Maltravers--Second Part (_i.e._ Alice.) 2 vols.
        Night and Morning. 2 vols.
        Lucretia. 2 vols.

"It is of the handiest of sizes; the paper is good; and the type, which
seems to be new, is very clear and beautiful. There are no pictures. The
whole charm of the presentment of the volume consists in its handiness,
and the tempting clearness and beauty of the type, which almost converts
into a pleasure the mere act of following the printer's lines, and
leaves the author's mind free to exert its unobstructed force upon the
reader."--_Examiner._

"Nothing could be better as to size, type, paper, and general
get-up."--_Athenæum._


 _JESSIE CAMERON: A HIGHLAND STORY._
    By the LADY RACHEL BUTLER. Second Edition. Small 8vo, with a
    Frontispiece, 2s. 6d.


 _SOME PASSAGES IN THE LIFE OF ADAM BLAIR_,
    And History of Matthew Wald. By the Author of 'Valerius.' Fcap. 8vo,
    4s. cloth.


 _CAPTAIN CLUTTERBUCK'S CHAMPAGNE_:
    A West Indian Reminiscence. Post 8vo, 12s.


 _SCENES OF CLERICAL LIFE._
    The Sad Fortunes of Amos Barton--Mr Gilfil's Love-Story--Janet's
    Repentance. By GEORGE ELIOT. 2 vols. Fcap. 8vo, 12s.


 _ADAM BEDE._
    By GEORGE ELIOT. 2 vols. Fcap. 8vo, 12s.


 _THE MILL ON THE FLOSS._
    By GEORGE ELIOT. 2 vols. Fcap. 8vo, 12s.


 _SILAS MARNER: THE WEAVER OF RAVELOE._
    By GEORGE ELIOT. Fcap. 8vo, 6s.


 _THE NOVELS OF GEORGE ELIOT._
    Cheap Edition, complete in 3 vols., price 6s. each--viz.:

       ADAM BEDE.
       THE MILL ON THE FLOSS.
       SCENES OF CLERICAL LIFE, and SILAS MARNER.


 _ANNALS OF THE PARISH, AND AYRSHIRE LEGATEES._
    By JOHN GALT. Fcap. 8vo, 4s. cloth.


 _SIR ANDREW WYLIE._
    By JOHN GALT. Fcap. 8vo, 4s. cloth.


 _THE PROVOST, AND OTHER TALES._
    By JOHN GALT. Fcap. 8vo, 4s. cloth.


 _THE ENTAIL._
    By JOHN GALT. Fcap. 8vo, 4s. cloth.


 _THE YOUTH AND MANHOOD OF CYRIL THORNTON._
    By CAPTAIN HAMILTON. Fcap. 8vo, 4s. cloth.


 _LADY LEE'S WIDOWHOOD._
    By LIEUT.-COL. E. B. HAMLEY. Crown 8vo, with 13 Illustrations by the
    Author. 6s.


 _THE LIFE OF MANSIE WAUCH_,
    Tailor in Dalkeith. By D. M. MOIR. Fcap. 8vo, 3s. cloth.


 _NIGHTS AT MESS, SIR FRIZZLE PUMPKIN, AND OTHER TALES._
    Fcap. 8vo, 3s. cloth.


 _KATIE STEWART: A TRUE STORY._
    By MRS OLIPHANT. Fcap. 8vo, with Frontispiece and Vignette. 4s.


 _PEN OWEN._
    Fcap. 8vo, 4s. cloth.


 _PENINSULAR SCENES AND SKETCHES._
    Fcap. 8vo, 3s. cloth.


 _REGINALD DALTON._
    By the Author of 'Valerius.' Fcap. 8vo, 4s. cloth.


 _LIFE IN THE FAR WEST._
    By G. F. RUXTON, Esq. Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo, 4s.


 _TOM CRINGLE'S LOG._
    A New Edition. With Illustrations by STANFIELD, WEIR, SKELTON,
    WALKER, &c., Engraved by WHYMPER. Crown 8vo, 6s.

"Everybody who has failed to read 'Tom Cringle's Log' should do so at
once. The 'Quarterly Review' went so far as to say that the papers
composing it, when it first appeared in 'Blackwood,' were the most
brilliant series of the time, and that time one unrivalled for the
number of famous magazinists existing in it. Coleridge says, in his
'Table Talk,' that the 'Log' is most excellent; and these verdicts have
been ratified by generations of men and boys, and by the manifestation
of Continental approval which is shown by repeated translations. The
engravings illustrating the present issue are excellent."--_Standard._


 _TOM CRINGLE'S LOG._
    Fcap. 8vo, 4s. cloth.


 _THE CRUISE OF THE MIDGE._
    By the Author of 'Tom Cringle's Log.' Fcap. 8vo, 4s. cloth.


 _CHAPTERS ON CHURCHYARDS._
    By MRS SOUTHEY. Fcap. 8vo, 7s. 6d.


 _THE SUBALTERN._
    By the Author of the 'The Chelsea Pensioners.' Fcap. 8vo, 3s. cloth.


 _CHRONICLES OF CARLINGFORD: SALEM CHAPEL._
    Second Edition. Complete in 1 vol., price 5s.

"This story, so fresh, so powerfully written, and so tragic, stands out
from among its fellows like a piece of newly-coined gold in a handful of
dim commonplace shillings. Tales of pastoral experience and scenes from
clerical life we have had in plenty, but the sacred things of the
conventicle, the relative position of pastor and flock in a
Nonconforming 'connection,' were but guessed at by the world outside,
and terrible is the revelation."--_Westminster Review._


 _CHRONICLES OF CARLINGFORD: THE RECTOR, AND THE DOCTOR'S FAMILY._
    Post 8vo, price 4s. _THE PERPETUAL CURATE._ Complete in one vol.
    8vo, price 6s.


 _TALES FROM BLACKWOOD._
    Complete in 12 vols., bound in cloth, 18s. The Volumes are sold
    separately, 1s. 6d.; and may be had of most Booksellers, in Six
    Volumes, handsomely half-bound in red morocco.

                   CONTENTS.

       VOL. I. The Glenmutchkin Railway.--Vanderdecken's Message
       Home.--The Floating Beacon.--Colonna the Painter.--Napoleon.--A
       Legend of Gibraltar.--The Iron Shroud.

       VOL. II. Lazaro's Legacy.--A Story without a Tail.--Faustus
       and Queen Elizabeth.--How I became a Yeoman.--Devereux Hall.--The
       Metempsychosis.--College Theatricals.

       VOL. III. A Reading Party in the Long Vacation.--Father Tom
       and the Pope.--La Petite Madelaine.--Bob Burke's Duel with Ensign
       Brady.--The Headsman: A Tale of Doom.--The Wearyful Woman.

       VOL. IV. How I stood for the Dreepdaily Burghs.--First and
       Last.--The Duke's Dilemma: A Chronicle of Niesenstein.--The Old
       Gentleman's Teetotum.--"Woe to us when we lose the Watery
       Wall."--My College Friends: Charles Russell, the Gentleman
       Commoner.--The Magic Lay of the One-Horse Chay.

       VOL. V. Adventures in Texas.--How we got Possession of the
       Tuileries.--Captain Paton's Lament.--The Village Doctor.--A
       Singular Letter from Southern Africa.

       VOL. VI. My Friend the Dutchman.--My College Friends--No.
       II.: Horace Leicester.--The Emerald Studs.--My College
       Friends--No. III.: Mr W. Wellington Hurst.--Christine: A Dutch
       Story.--The Man in the Bell.

       VOL. VII. My English Acquaintance.--The Murderer's Last
       Night.--Narration of Certain Uncommon Things that did formerly
       happen to Me, Herbert Willis, B.D.--The Wags.--The Wet Wooing: A
       Narrative of '98.--Ben-na-Groich.

       VOL. VIII. The Surveyor's Tale. By Professor Aytoun.--The
       Forrest Race Romance.--Di Vasari: A Tale of Florence.--Sigismund
       Fatello.--The Boxes.

       VOL. IX. Rosaura: A Tale of Madrid.--Adventure in the
       North-West Territory.--Harry Bolton's Curacy.--The Florida
       Pirate.--The Pandour and his Princess.--The Beauty Draught.

       VOL. X. Antonio di Carara.--The Fatal Repast.--The Vision
       of Cagliostro.--The First and Last Kiss.--The Smuggler's
       Leap.--The Haunted and the Haunters.--The Duellists.

       VOL. XI. The Natolian Story-Teller.--The First and Last
       Crime.--John Rintoul.--Major Moss.--The Premier and his Wife.

       VOL. XII. Tickler among the Thieves!--The Bridegroom of
       Barna.--The Involuntary Experimentalist.--Lebrun's Lawsuit.--The
       Snowing-up of Strath Lugas.--A Few Words on Social Philosophy.


 _THE WONDER-SEEKER_;
    Or, The History of Charles Douglas. By M. FRASER TYTLER, Author of
    'Tales of the Great and Brave,' &c. A New Edition. Fcap. 8vo, 3s. 6d.


 _VALERIUS: A ROMAN STORY._
    Fcap. 8vo, 3s. cloth.


 _THE DIARY OF A LATE PHYSICIAN._
    By SAMUEL WARREN, D.C.L. 1 vol. Crown 8vo, 5s. 6d.


 _TEN THOUSAND A-YEAR._
    By SAMUEL WARREN, D.C.L. 2 vols. Crown 8vo, 9s.


 _NOW AND THEN._
    By SAMUEL WARREN, D.C.L. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.


 _THE LILY AND THE BEE._
    By SAMUEL WARREN, D.C.L. Crown 8vo, 2s.


 _MISCELLANIES._
    By SAMUEL WARREN, D.C.L. Crown 8vo, 5s.


 _WORKS OF SAMUEL WARREN, D.C.L._
    Uniform Edition. 5 vols. Crown 8vo, 24s.


 _WORKS OF PROFESSOR WILSON._
    Edited by his Son-in-law, Professor FERRIER. In 12 vols. Crown 8vo,
    £2, 8s. Illustrated with Portraits on Steel.


 _RECREATIONS OF CHRISTOPHER NORTH._
    By PROFESSOR WILSON. In 2 vols. Crown 8vo, 8s.


 _THE NOCTES AMBROSIANÆ._
    By PROFESSOR WILSON. With Notes and a Glossary. In 4 vols. Crown
    8vo, 16s.


 _LIGHTS AND SHADOWS OF SCOTTISH LIFE._
    By PROFESSOR WILSON. Fcap. 8vo, 3s. cloth.


 _THE TRIALS OF MARGARET LYNDSAY._
    By PROFESSOR WILSON. Fcap. 8vo, 3s. cloth.


 _THE FORESTERS._
    By PROFESSOR WILSON. Fcap. 8vo, 3s. cloth.


 _TALES._
    By PROFESSOR WILSON. Comprising 'The Lights and Shadows of Scottish
    Life;' 'The Trials of Margaret Lyndsay;' and 'The Foresters.' In 1
    vol. Crown 8vo, 4s. cloth.


 _ESSAYS, CRITICAL AND IMAGINATIVE._
    By PROFESSOR WILSON. 4 vols. Crown 8vo, 16s.


 _TONY BUTLER._
    Originally published in 'Blackwood's Magazine.' 3 vols. post 8vo,
    £1, 11s. 6d.


 _THE BOOK-HUNTER, ETC._
    By JOHN HILL BURTON. New Edition. In Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

"A book pleasant to look at and pleasant to read--pleasant from its rich
store of anecdote, its geniality, and its humour, even to persons who
care little for the subjects of which it treats, but beyond measure
delightful to those who are in any degree members of the above-mentioned
fraternity."--_Saturday Review._

"We have not been more amused for a long time: and every reader who
takes interest in typography and its consequences will say the same, if
he will begin to read; beginning, he will finish, and be sorry when it
is over."--_Athenæum._

"Mr Burton has now given us a pleasant book, full of quaint anecdote,
and of a lively bookish talk. There is a quiet humour in it which is
very taking, and there is a curious knowledge of books which is really
very sound."--_Examiner._


 _HOMER AND HIS TRANSLATORS_,
    And the Greek Drama. By PROFESSOR WILSON. Crown 8vo, 6s.

"But of all the criticisms on Homer which I have ever had the good
fortune to read, in our own or any language, the most vivid and entirely
genial are those found in the 'Essays, Critical and Imaginative,' of the
late Professor Wilson."--_Mr Gladstone's Studies on Homer._


 _THE SKETCHER._
    By the REV. JOHN EAGLES. Originally published in 'Blackwood's
    Magazine.' 8vo, 10s. 6d.


"This volume, called by the appropriate name of 'The Sketcher,' is one
that ought to be found in the studio of every English
landscape-painter.... More instructive and suggestive readings for young
artists, especially landscape-painters, can scarcely be found."--_The
Globe._


 _ESSAYS._
    By the REV. JOHN EAGLES, A.M. Oxon. Originally published in
    'Blackwood's Magazine.' Post 8vo, 10s. 6d.

       CONTENTS:--Church Music, and other Parochials.--Medical
       Attendance, and other Parochials.--A few Hours at Hampton
       Court.--Grandfathers and Grandchildren.--Sitting for a
       Portrait.--Are there not Great Boasters among us?--Temperance and
       Teetotal Societies.--Thackeray's Lectures: Swift.--The Crystal
       Palace.--Civilisation: The Census.--The Beggar's Legacy.


 _ESSAYS; HISTORICAL, POLITICAL, AND MISCELLANEOUS._
    By SIR ARCHIBALD ALISON, Bart., D.C.L. Three vols., demy 8vo, 45s.


 _LECTURES ON THE POETICAL LITERATURE OF THE
    PAST HALF-CENTURY._ By D. M. MOIR. Third Edition. Fcap. 8vo, 5s.

"Exquisite in its taste and generous in its criticisms."--_Hugh Miller._


 _LECTURES ON THE HISTORY OF LITERATURE_,
    Ancient and Modern. From the German of F. SCHLEGEL. Fcap., 5s.

"A wonderful performance--better than anything we as yet have in our own
language."--_Quarterly Review._


 _THE GENIUS OF HANDEL_,
    And the distinctive Character of his Sacred Compositions. Two
    Lectures. Delivered to the Members of the Edinburgh Philosophical
    Institution. By the VERY REV. DEAN RAMSAY, Author of 'Reminiscences
    of Scottish Life and Character.' In Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.


 _BLACKWOOD'S MAGAZINE_,
    From Commencement in 1817 to December 1861. Numbers 1 to 554,
    forming 90 Volumes. £31, 10s.


 _INDEX TO THE FIRST FIFTY VOLUMES OF BLACKWOOD'S MAGAZINE._
    8vo, 15s.


 _LAYS OF THE SCOTTISH CAVALIERS_,
    And other Poems. By W. EDMONDSTOUNE AYTOUN, D.C.L., Professor of
    Rhetoric and English Literature in the University of Edinburgh.
    Eighteenth Edition. Fcap. 8vo, 7s. 6d.

"Professor Aytoun's 'Lays of the Scottish Cavaliers'--a volume of verse
which shows that Scotland has yet a poet. Full of the true fire, it now
stirs and swells like a trumpet-note--now sinks in cadences sad and wild
as the wail of a Highland dirge."--_Quarterly Review._


 _BOTHWELL: A POEM._
    By W. EDMONDSTOUNE AYTOUN, D.C.L. Third Edition. Fcap. 8vo, 7s. 6d.

"Professor Aytoun has produced a fine poem and an able argument, and
'Bothwell' will assuredly take its stand among the classics of Scottish
literature."--_The Press._


 _THE BALLADS OF SCOTLAND._
    Edited by Professor AYTOUN. Third Edition. 2 vols. Fcap. 8vo, 12s.

"No country can boast of a richer collection of Ballads than Scotland,
and no Editor for these Ballads could be found more accomplished than
Professor Aytoun. He has sent forth two beautiful volumes which range
with 'Percy's Reliques'--which, for completeness and accuracy, leave
little to be desired--which must henceforth be considered as the
standard edition of the Scottish Ballads, and which we commend as a
model to any among ourselves who may think of doing like service to the
English Ballads."--_Times._


 _POEMS AND BALLADS OF GOETHE._
    Translated by Professor AYTOUN and THEODORE MARTIN. Second Edition.
    Fcap. 8vo, 6s.

"There is no doubt that these are the best translations of Goethe's
marvellously-cut gems which have yet been published."--_Times._


 _THE BOOK OF BALLADS._
    Edited by BON GAULTIER. Ninth Edition, with numerous Illustrations
    by DOYLE, LEECH, and CROWQUILL. Gilt edges, post 8vo, 8s. 6d.


 _FIRMILIAN; OR, THE STUDENT OF BADAJOS._
    A Spasmodic Tragedy. By T. PERCY JONES. In small 8vo, 5s.

"Humour of a kind most rare at all times, and especially in the present
day, runs through every page, and passages of true poetry and delicious
versification prevent the continual play of sarcasm from becoming
tedious."--_Literary Gazette._


 _POETICAL WORKS OF THOMAS AIRD._
    Fourth Edition, In 1 vol. Fcap. 8vo, 6s.


 _POEMS._
    By the LADY FLORA HASTINGS. Edited by her SISTER. Second Edition,
    with a Portrait. Fcap., 7s. 6d.


 _THE POEMS OF FELICIA HEMANS._
    Complete in 1 vol. royal 8vo, with Portrait by FINDEN. Cheap
    Edition, 12s. 6d. _Another Edition_, with MEMOIR by her SISTER.
    Seven vols. Fcap., 35s. _Another Edition_, in 6 vols., cloth, gilt
    edges, 24s.


    The following Works of Mrs HEMANS are sold separately,
    bound in cloth, gilt edges, 4s. each:--

        RECORDS OF WOMAN. FOREST SANCTUARY. SONGS OF THE AFFECTIONS.
        DRAMATIC WORKS. TALES AND HISTORIC SCENES. MORAL AND RELIGIOUS
        POEMS.


 _THE ODYSSEY OF HOMER._
    Translated into English Verse in the Spenserian Stanza. By PHILIP
    STANHOPE WORSLEY, M.A., Scholar of Corpus Christi College. 2 vols.
    Crown 8vo, 18s.

"Mr Worsley,--applying the Spenserian stanza, that beautiful romantic
measure, to the most romantic poem of the ancient world--making the
stanza yield him, too (what it never yielded to Byron), its treasures of
fluidity and sweet ease--above all, bringing to his task a truly
poetical sense and skill,--has produced a version of the 'Odyssey' much
the most pleasing of those hitherto produced, and which is delightful to
read."--_Professor Arnold on Translating Homer._


 _POEMS AND TRANSLATIONS._
    By PHILIP STANHOPE WORSLEY, M.A., Scholar of Corpus Christi College,
    Oxford. Fcap. 8vo, 5s.


 _POEMS._
    By ISA. In small 8vo, 4s. 6d.


 _POETICAL WORKS OF D. M. MOIR._
    With Portrait, and Memoir by THOMAS AIRD. Second Edition. 2 vols.
    Fcap. 8vo, 12s.


 _LECTURES ON THE POETICAL LITERATURE OF THE PAST HALF-CENTURY._
    By D. M. MOIR ([Greek: D]). Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo, 5s.

"A delightful volume."--_Morning Chronicle._

"Exquisite in its taste and generous in its criticisms."--_Hugh Miller._


 _THE COURSE OF TIME: A POEM._
    By ROBERT POLLOK, A.M. Twenty-fourth Edition. Fcap. 8vo, 5s.

"Of deep and hallowed impress, full of noble thoughts and graphic
conceptions--the production of a mind alive to the great relations of
being, and the sublime simplicity of our religion."--_Blackwood's
Magazine._


 _AN ILLUSTRATED EDITION OF THE COURSE OF TIME._
    In large 8vo, bound in cloth, richly gilt, 21s.

"There has been no modern poem in the English language, of the class to
which the 'Course of Time' belongs, since Milton wrote, that can be
compared to it. In the present instance the artistic talents of Messrs
FOSTER, CLAYTON, TENNIEL, EVANS, DALZIEL, GREEN, and WOODS, have been
employed in giving expression to the sublimity of the language, by
equally exquisite illustrations, all of which are of the highest
class."--_Bell's Messenger._


 _POEMS AND BALLADS OF SCHILLER._
    Translated by Sir EDWARD BULWER LYTTON, Bart. Second Edition. 8vo,
    10s. 6d.


 _ST STEPHEN'S_;
    Or, Illustrations of Parliamentary Oratory. A Poem.
    _Comprising_--Pym--Vane--Strafford--Halifax--Shaftesbury--St John--
    Sir R. Walpole--Chesterfield--Carteret--Chatham--Pitt--Fox--Burke--
    Sheridan--Wilberforce--Wyndham--Conway--Castlereagh--William Lamb
    (Lord Melbourne)--Tierney--Lord Grey--O'Connell--Plunkett--Shiel--
    Follett--Macaulay--Peel. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 5s.


 _LEGENDS, LYRICS, AND OTHER POEMS._
    By B. SIMMONS. Fcap., 7s. 6d.


 _SIR WILLIAM CRICHTON--ATHELWOLD--GUIDONE_:
    Dramas by WILLIAM SMITH, Author of 'Thorndale,' &c. 32mo, 2s. 6d.


 _THE BIRTHDAY, AND OTHER POEMS._
    By MRS SOUTHEY. Second Edition, 5s.


 _ILLUSTRATIONS OF THE LYRIC POETRY AND MUSIC OF SCOTLAND._
    By WILLIAM STENHOUSE. Originally compiled to accompany the 'Scots
    Musical Museum,' and now published separately, with Additional Notes
    and Illustrations. 8vo, 7s. 6d.


 _PROFESSOR WILSON'S POEMS._
    Containing the 'Isle of Palms,' the 'City of the Plague,' 'Unimore,'
    and other Poems. Complete Edition. Crown 8vo, 4s.


 _POEMS AND SONGS._
    By DAVID WINGATE. Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo, 5s.

"We are delighted to welcome into the brotherhood of real poets a
countryman of Burns, and whose verse will go far to render the rougher
Border Scottish a classic dialect in our literature."--_John Bull._


 _THE PHYSICAL ATLAS OF NATURAL PHENOMENA._
    By ALEXANDER KEITH JOHNSTON, F.R.S.E., &c., Geographer to the Queen
    for Scotland. A New and Enlarged Edition, consisting of 35 Folio
    Plates, and 27 smaller ones, printed in Colours, with 135 pages of
    Letterpress, and Index. Imperial folio, half-bound morocco, £8, 8s.

"A perfect treasure of compressed information."--_Sir John Herschel._


 _THE PHYSICAL ATLAS._
    By ALEXANDER KEITH JOHNSTON, F.R.S.E., &c. Reduced from the Imperial
    Folio. This Edition contains Twenty-five Maps, including a
    Palæontological and Geological Map of the British Islands, with
    Descriptive Letterpress, and a very copious Index. In imperial 4to,
    half-bound morocco, £2, 12s. 6d.

"Executed with remarkable care, and is as accurate, and, for all
educational purposes, as valuable, as the splendid large work (by the
same author) which has now a European reputation."--_Eclectic Review._


 _A GEOLOGICAL MAP OF EUROPE._
    By SIR R. I. MURCHISON, D.C.L., F.R.S., &c., Director-General of the
    Geological Survey of Great Britain and Ireland; and JAMES NICOL,
    F.R.S.E., F.G.S., Professor of Natural History in the University of
    Aberdeen. Constructed by ALEXANDER KEITH JOHNSTON, F.R.S.E., &c.
    Four Sheets imperial, beautifully printed in Colours. In Sheets, £3,
    3s.; in a Cloth Case, 4to, £3, 10s.


 _GEOLOGICAL AND PALÆONTOLOGICAL MAP OF THE BRITISH ISLANDS_,
    including Tables of the Fossils of the different Epochs, &c.,
    from the Sketches and Notes of Professor EDWARD FORBES. With
    Illustrative and Explanatory Letterpress. 21s.


 _GEOLOGICAL MAP OF SCOTLAND._
    By JAMES NICOL, F.R.S.E., &c., Professor of Natural History in the
    University of Aberdeen. With Explanatory Notes. The Topography by
    ALEXANDER KEITH JOHNSTON, F.R.S.E., &c. Scale, 10 miles to an inch.
    In Cloth Case, 21s.


 _INTRODUCTORY TEXT-BOOK OF PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY._
    By DAVID PAGE, F.R.S.E., &c. With Illustrations and a Glossarial
    Index. Crown 8vo, 2s.


 _INTRODUCTORY TEXT-BOOK OF GEOLOGY._
    By DAVID PAGE, F.R.S.E., F.G.S. With Engravings on Wood and
    Glossarial Index. Seventh Edition, 2s.

"It has not often been our good fortune to examine a text-book on
science of which we could express an opinion so entirely favourable as
we are enabled to do of Mr Page's little work."--_Athenæum._


 _ADVANCED TEXT-BOOK OF GEOLOGY_,
    Descriptive and Industrial. By DAVID PAGE, F.R.S E., F.G.S. With
    Engravings and Glossary of Scientific Terms. Fourth Edition, revised
    and enlarged, 7s. 6d.

"It is therefore with unfeigned pleasure that we record our appreciation
of his 'Advanced Text-Book of Geology.' We have carefully read this
truly satisfactory book, and do not hesitate to say that it is an
excellent compendium of the great facts of Geology, and written in a
truthful and philosophic spirit."--_Edinburgh Philosophical Journal._


 _HANDBOOK OF GEOLOGICAL TERMS, GEOLOGY, AND PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY._
    By DAVID PAGE, F.R.S.E., F.G.S. Second Edition, Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.


 _THE PAST AND PRESENT LIFE OF THE GLOBE_:
    Being a Sketch in Outline of the World's Life-System. By DAVID PAGE,
    F.R.S.E., F.G.S. Crown 8vo, 6s. With Fifty Illustrations, drawn and
    engraved expressly for this Work.

"Mr Page, whose admirable text-books of geology have already secured him
a position of importance in the scientific world, will add considerably
to his reputation by the present sketch, as he modestly terms it, of the
Life-System, or gradual evolution of the vitality of our globe. In no
manual that we are aware of have the facts and phenomena of biology been
presented in at once so systematic and succinct a form, the successive
manifestations of life on the earth set forth in so clear an order, or
traced so vividly from the earliest organisms deep-buried in its
stratified crust, to the familiar forms that now adorn and people its
surface."--_Literary Gazette._


 _THE GEOLOGICAL EXAMINATOR_:
    A Progressive Series of Questions adapted to the Introductory and
    Advanced Text-Books of Geology. Prepared to assist Teachers in
    framing their Examinations, and Students in testing their own
    Progress and Proficiency. By DAVID PAGE, F.R.S.E., F.G.S. Third
    Edition, 1s.


 _THE GEOLOGY OF PENNSYLVANIA_:
    A Government Survey; with a General View of the Geology of the
    United States, Essays on the Coal Formation and its Fossils, and a
    Description of the Coal-Fields of North America and Great Britain.
    By PROFESSOR HENRY DARWIN ROGERS, F.R.S., F.G.S., Professor of
    Natural History in the University of Glasgow. With Seven large Maps,
    and numerous Illustrations engraved on Copper and on Wood. In 3
    vols. royal 4to, £8, 8s.


 _SEA-SIDE STUDIES AT ILFRACOMBE, TENBY, THE SCILLY ISLES, AND JERSEY._
    By GEORGE HENRY LEWES. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, with
    Illustrations, and a Glossary of Technical Terms, 6s. 6d.


 _PHYSIOLOGY OF COMMON LIFE._
    By GEORGE HENRY LEWES, Author of 'Sea-side Studies,' &c. Illustrated
    with numerous Engravings. 2 vols., 12s.


 _CHEMISTRY OF COMMON LIFE._
    By PROFESSOR J. F. W. JOHNSTON. A New Edition. Edited by G. H.
    LEWES. With 113 Illustrations on Wood, and a Copious Index. 2 vols.
    Crown 8vo, 11s. 6d.


 _NOMENCLATURE OF COLOURS_,
    Applicable to the Arts and Natural Sciences, to Manufactures, and
    other Purposes of General Utility. By D. R. HAY, F.R.S.E. 228
    Examples of Colours, Hues, Tints, and Shades. 8vo, £3, 3s.


       *       *       *       *       *


 _NARRATIVE OF THE EARL OF ELGIN'S MISSION TO CHINA AND JAPAN._
    By LAURENCE OLIPHANT, Private Secretary to Lord Elgin. Illustrated
    with numerous Engravings in Chromo-Lithography, Maps, and Engravings
    on Wood, from Original Drawings and Photographs. Second Edition. In
    2 vols. 8vo, 21s.

"The volumes in which Mr Oliphant has related those transactions will be
read with the strongest interest now, and deserve to retain a permanent
place in the literary and historical annals of our time."--_Edinburgh
Review._


 _RUSSIAN SHORES OF THE BLACK SEA._
    In the Autumn of 1852. With a Voyage down the Volga and a Tour
    through the Country of the Don Cossacks. By LAURENCE OLIPHANT, Esq.
    8vo, with Map and other Illustrations. Fourth Edition, 14s.


 _EGYPT, THE SOUDAN, AND CENTRAL AFRICA_:
    With Explorations from Khartoum on the White Nile to the Regions of
    the Equator. By JOHN PETHERICK, F.R.G.S., Her Britannic Majesty's
    Consul for the Soudan. In 8vo, with a Map, 16s.


 _NOTES ON NORTH AMERICA_:
    Agricultural, Economical, and Social. By PROFESSOR J. F. W.
    JOHNSTON. 2 vols. post 8vo, 21s.

"Professor Johnston's admirable Notes.... The very best manual for
intelligent emigrants whilst to the British agriculturist and general
reader it conveys a more complete conception of the condition of these
prosperous regions than all that has hitherto been
written."--_Economist._


 _A FAMILY TOUR ROUND THE COASTS OF SPAIN AND PORTUGAL_
    during the Winter of 1860-1861. By LADY DUNBAR, of Northfield. In
    post 8vo, 5s.


 _THE ROYAL ATLAS OF MODERN GEOGRAPHY._
    In a Series of entirely Original and Authentic Maps. By A. KEITH
    JOHNSTON, F.R.S.E., F.R.G.S., Author of the 'Physical Atlas,' &c.
    With a complete Index of easy reference to each Map, comprising
    nearly 150,000 Places contained in this Atlas. Imperial folio,
    half-bound in russia or morocco, £5, 15s. 6d. (Dedicated by
    permission to Her Majesty.)

"No one can look through Mr Keith Johnston's new Atlas without seeing
that it is the best which has ever been published in this
country."--_The Times._

"Of the many noble atlases prepared by Mr Johnston and published by
Messrs Blackwood & Sons, this Royal Atlas will be the most useful to the
public, and will deserve to be the most popular."--_Athenæum._

"We know no series of maps which we can more warmly recommend. The
accuracy, wherever we have attempted to put it to the test, is really
astonishing."--_Saturday Review._

"The culmination of all attempts to depict the face of the world appears
in the Royal Atlas, than which it is impossible to conceive anything
more perfect."--_Monday Herald._

"This is, beyond question, the most splendid and luxurious, as well as
the most useful and complete, of all existing atlases."--_Guardian._

"There has not, we believe, been produced for general public use a body
of maps equal in beauty and completeness to the Royal Atlas just issued
by Mr A. K. Johnston."--_Examiner._

"An almost daily reference to, and comparison of it with others, since
the publication of the first part some two years ago until now, enables
us to say, without the slightest hesitation, that this is by far the
most complete and authentic atlas that has yet been
issued."--_Scotsman._

"Beyond doubt the greatest geographical work of our time."--_Museum._


 _INDEX GEOGRAPHICUS_:
    Being an Index to nearly ONE HUNDRED AND FIFTY THOUSAND NAMES OF
    PLACES, &c.; with their LATITUDES and LONGITUDES as given in KEITH
    JOHNSTON'S 'ROYAL ATLAS;' together with the COUNTRIES and
    SUBDIVISIONS OF THE COUNTRIES in which they are situated. In 1 vol.
    large 8vo., 21s.


 _A NEW MAP OF EUROPE._
    By A. KEITH JOHNSTON, F.R.S.E. Size, 4 feet 2 inches by 3 feet 5
    inches. Cloth Case, 21s.


 _ATLAS OF SCOTLAND._
    31 Maps of the Counties of Scotland, coloured. Bound in roan, price
    10s. 6d. Each County may be had separately, in Cloth Case, 1s.


 _KEITH JOHNSTON'S SCHOOL ATLASES_:--

       GENERAL AND DESCRIPTIVE GEOGRAPHY, exhibiting the Actual and
       Comparative Extent of all the Countries in the World, with their
       present Political Divisions. A New and Enlarged Edition. With a
       complete Index. 26 Maps. Half-bound, 12s. 6d.

       PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY, illustrating, in a Series of Original
       Designs, the Elementary Facts of Geology, Hydrology, Meteorology,
       and Natural History. A New and Enlarged Edition. 19 Maps,
       including coloured Geological Maps of Europe and of the British
       Isles. Half-bound, 12s. 6d.

       CLASSICAL GEOGRAPHY, comprising, in Twenty-three Plates, Maps and
       Plans of all the important Countries and Localities referred to
       by Classical Authors; accompanied by a pronouncing Index of
       Places, by T. HARVEY, M.A. Oxon. A New and Revised Edition.
       Half-bound, 12s. 6d.

       ASTRONOMY. Edited by J. R. HIND, Esq., F.R.A.S., &c. Notes
       and Descriptive Letterpress to each Plate, embodying all recent
       Discoveries in Astronomy. 18 Maps. Half-bound, 12s. 6d.

       ELEMENTARY SCHOOL ATLAS OF GENERAL AND DESCRIPTIVE GEOGRAPHY for
       the Use of Junior Classes. A New and Cheaper Edition. 20 Maps,
       including a Map of Canaan and Palestine. Half-bound, 5s.

"They are as superior to all School Atlases within our knowledge, as
were the larger works of the same Author in advance of those that
preceded them."--_Educational Times._

"Decidedly the best School Atlases we have ever seen."--_English Journal
of Education._

"The best, the fullest, the most accurate and recent, as well as
artistically the most beautiful atlas that can be put into the
schoolboy's hands."--_Museum, April 1863._


 _A MANUAL OF MODERN GEOGRAPHY_:
    Mathematical, Physical, and Political. Embracing a complete
    Development of the River-Systems of the Globe. By the _Rev._ ALEX.
    MACKAY, F.R.G.S. With Index. 7s. 6d., bound in leather.


 _THE BOOK OF THE FARM._
    Detailing the Labours of the Farmer, Farm-Steward, Ploughman,
    Shepherd, Hedger, Cattle-man, Field-worker, and Dairymaid, and
    forming a safe Monitor for Students in Practical Agriculture. By
    HENRY STEPHENS, F.R.S.E. 2 vols. royal 8vo, £3, handsomely bound in
    cloth, with upwards of 600 Illustrations.

"The best book I have ever met with."--_Professor Johnston._

"We have thoroughly examined these volumes; but to give a full notice of
their varied and valuable contents would occupy a larger space than we
can conveniently devote to their discussion; we therefore, in general
terms, commend them to the careful study of every young man who wishes
to become a good practical farmer."--_Times._

"One of the completest works on agriculture of which our literature can
boast."--_Agricultural Gazette._


 _THE BOOK OF FARM IMPLEMENTS AND MACHINES._
    By JAMES SLIGHT and R. SCOTT BURN. Edited by HENRY STEPHENS,
    F.R.S.E. Illustrated with 876 Engravings. Royal 8vo, uniform with
    the 'Book of the Farm,' half-bound, £2, 2s.


 _THE BOOK OF FARM BUILDINGS:_
    Their Arrangement and Construction. By HENRY STEPHENS, F.R.S.E., and
    R. SCOTT BURN. Royal 8vo, with 1045 Illustrations. Uniform with the
    'Book of the Farm.' Half-bound, £1, 11s. 6d.


 _THE BOOK OF THE GARDEN._
    By CHARLES M'INTOSH. In 2 large vols. royal 8vo, embellished with
    1353 Engravings.

                _Each Volume may be had separately_--_viz._:

       I. ARCHITECTURAL AND ORNAMENTAL.--On the Formation of
       Gardens--Construction, Heating, and Ventilation of Fruit and
       Plant Houses, Pits, Frames, and other Garden Structures, with
       Practical Details. Illustrated by 1073 Engravings, pp. 766. £2,
       10s.

       II. PRACTICAL GARDENING.--Directions for the Culture of the
       Kitchen Garden, the Hardy-fruit Garden, the Forcing Garden, and
       Flower Garden, including Fruit and Plant Houses, with Select
       Lists of Vegetables, Fruits, and Plants. Pp. 868, with 279
       Engravings. £1, 17s. 6d.

"We feel justified in recommending Mr M'Intosh's two excellent volumes
to the notice of the public."--_Gardeners' Chronicle._


 _PRACTICAL SYSTEM OF FARM BOOK-KEEPING_:
    Being that recommended in the 'Book of the Farm' by H. STEPHENS.
    Royal 8vo, 2s. 6d. Also, SEVEN FOLIO ACCOUNT-BOOKS, printed and
    ruled in accordance with the System, the whole being specially
    adapted for keeping, by an easy and accurate method, an account of
    all the transactions of the Farm. A detailed Prospectus may be had
    from the Publishers. Price of the complete set of Eight Books, £1,
    4s. 6d. Also, A LABOUR ACCOUNT OF THE ESTATE, 2s. 6d.

"We have no hesitation in saying that, of the many systems of keeping
farm accounts which are now in vogue, there is not one which will bear
comparison with this."--_Bell's Messenger._


 _AINSLIE'S TREATISE ON LAND-SURVEYING._
    A New and Enlarged Edition. Edited by WILLIAM GALBRAITH, M.A.,
    F.R.A.S. 1 vol. 8vo, with a Volume of Plates in Quarto, 21s.

"The best book on surveying with which I am acquainted."--W. RUTHERFORD,
LL.D., F.R.A.S., _Royal Military Academy, Woolwich_.


 _THE FORESTER_:
    A Practical Treatise on the Planting, Rearing, and Management of
    Forest Trees. By JAMES BROWN, Wood Manager to the Earl of Seafield.
    Third Edition, greatly enlarged, with numerous Engravings on Wood.
    Royal 8vo, 30s.

"Beyond all doubt this is the best work on the subject of Forestry
extant."--_Gardeners' Journal._

"The most useful guide to good arboriculture in the English
language."--_Gardeners' Chronicle._


 _HANDBOOK OF THE MECHANICAL ARTS_,
    Concerned in the Construction and Arrangement of Dwellings and other
    Buildings; Including Carpentry, Smith-work, Iron-framing,
    Brick-making, Columns, Cements, Well-sinking, Enclosing of Land,
    Road-making, &c. By R. SCOTT BURN. Crown 8vo, with 504 Engravings on
    Wood, 6s. 6d.


 _PROFESSOR JOHNSTON'S WORKS_:--

       EXPERIMENTAL AGRICULTURE. Being the Results of Past, and
       Suggestions for Future, Experiments in Scientific and Practical
       Agriculture. 8s.

       ELEMENTS OF AGRICULTURAL CHEMISTRY AND GEOLOGY. Eighth Edition,
       6s. 6d.

       A CATECHISM OF AGRICULTURAL CHEMISTRY AND GEOLOGY. Fifty-seventh
       Edition. Edited by Dr VOELCKER. 1s.

       ON THE USE OF LIME IN AGRICULTURE. 6s.

       INSTRUCTIONS FOR THE ANALYSIS OF SOILS. Fourth Edition, 2s.


 _THE RELATIVE VALUE OF ROUND AND SAWN TIMBER_,
    Shown by means of Tables and Diagrams. By JAMES RAIT, Land-Steward
    at Castle-Forbes. Royal 8vo, 8s. half-bound.


 _THE YEAR-BOOK OF AGRICULTURAL FACTS._
    1859 and 1860. Edited by R. SCOTT BURN. Fcap. 8vo, 5s. each. 1861
    and 1862, 4s. each.


 _ELKINGTON'S SYSTEM OF DRAINING_:
    A Systematic Treatise on the Theory and Practice of Draining Land,
    adapted to the various Situations and Soils of England and Scotland,
    drawn up from the Communications of Joseph Elkington, by J.
    JOHNSTONE. 4to, 10s. 6d.


 _JOURNAL OF AGRICULTURE, AND TRANSACTIONS OF
    THE HIGHLAND AND AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY OF SCOTLAND._

       OLD SERIES, 1828 to 1843, 21 vols.   £3 3 0
       NEW SERIES, 1843 to 1851,  8 vols.    2 2 0


 _THE RURAL ECONOMY OF ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND IRELAND._
    By LEONCE DE LAVERGNE. Translated from the French. With Notes by a
    Scottish Farmer. In 8vo, 12s.

"One of the best works on the philosophy of agriculture and of
agricultural political economy that has appeared."--_Spectator._


 _DAIRY MANAGEMENT AND FEEDING OF MILCH COWS_:
    Being the recorded Experience of MRS AGNES SCOTT, Winkston, Peebles.
    Second Edition. Fcap., 1s.


 _ITALIAN IRRIGATION_:
    A Report addressed to the Hon. the Court of Directors of the East
    India Company, on the Agricultural Canals of Piedmont and Lombardy;
    with a Sketch of the Irrigation System of Northern and Central
    India. By LIEUT.-COL. BAIRD SMITH, C.B. Second Edition. 2 vols. 8vo.
    with Atlas in folio, 30s.


 _THE ARCHITECTURE OF THE FARM_:
    A Series of Designs for Farm Houses, Farm Steadings, Factors'
    Houses, and Cottages. By JOHN STARFORTH, Architect. Sixty-two
    Engravings. In medium 4to, £2, 2s.

"One of the most useful and beautiful additions to Messrs Blackwood's
extensive and valuable library of agricultural and rural
economy."--_Morning Post._


 _THE YESTER DEEP LAND-CULTURE_:
    Being a Detailed Account of the Method of Cultivation which has been
    successfully practised for several years by the Marquess of
    Tweeddale at Yester. By HENRY STEPHENS, Esq., F.R.S.E., Author of
    the 'Book of the Farm.' In small 8vo, with Engravings on Wood, 4s.
    6d.


 _A MANUAL OF PRACTICAL DRAINING._
    By HENRY STEPHENS, F.R.S.E., Author of the 'Book of the Farm.' Third
    Edition, 8vo, 5s.


 _A CATECHISM OF PRACTICAL AGRICULTURE._
    By HENRY STEPHENS, F.R.S.E., Author of the 'Book of the Farm,' &c.
    In Crown 8vo, with Illustrations, 1s.


 _HANDY BOOK ON PROPERTY LAW._
    By LORD ST LEONARDS. The Seventh Edition. To which is now added a
    Letter on the New Laws for obtaining an Indefeasible Title. With a
    Portrait of the Author, engraved by HOLL. 3s. 6d.

"Less than 200 pages serve to arm us with the ordinary precautions to
which we should attend in selling, buying, mortgaging, leasing,
settling, and devising estates. We are informed of our relations to our
property, to our wives and children, and of our liability as trustees or
executors, in a little book for the million,--a book which the author
tenders to the _profanum vulgus_ as even capable of 'beguiling a few
hours in a railway carriage.'"--_Times._


 _THE PLANTERS GUIDE._
    By SIR HENRY STEUART. A New Edition, with the Author's last
    Additions and Corrections. 8vo, with Engravings, 21s.


 _STABLE ECONOMY_:
    A Treatise on the Management of Horses. By JOHN STEWART, V.S.
    Seventh Edition, 6s. 6d.

"Will always maintain its position as a standard work upon the
management of horses."--_Mark Lane Express._


 _ADVICE TO PURCHASERS OF HORSES._
    By JOHN STEWART, V.S. 18mo, plates, 2s. 6d.


 _A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON THE CULTIVATION OF THE GRAPE VINE._
    By WILLIAM THOMSON, Gardener to His Grace the Duke of Buccleuch,
    Dalkeith Park. Fifth Edition. 8vo, 5s.

"When books on gardening are written thus conscientiously, they are
alike honourable to their author and valuable to the
public."--_Lindley's Gardeners' Chronicle._

"Want of space prevents us giving extracts, and we must therefore
conclude by saying, that as the author is one of the very best
grape-growers of the day, this book may be stated as being the key to
his successful practice, and as such, we can with confidence recommend
it as indispensable to all who wish to excel in the cultivation of the
vine."--_The Florist and Pomologist._


 _THE CHEMISTRY OF VEGETABLE AND ANIMAL PHYSIOLOGY._
    By DR J. G. MULDER, Professor of Chemistry in the University of
    Utrecht. With an Introduction and Notes by Professor JOHNSTON. 22
    Plates. 8vo, 30s.


 _THE MOOR AND THE LOCH._
    Containing Minute Instructions in all Highland Sports, with
    Wanderings over Crag and Correi, Flood and Fell. By JOHN COLQUHOUN,
    Esq. Third Edition. 8vo, with Illustrations, 12s. 6d.


 _SALMON-CASTS AND STRAY SHOTS_:
    Being Fly-Leaves from the Note-Book of JOHN COLQUHOUN, Esq., Author
    of 'The Moor and the Loch,' &c. Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo, 5s.


 _COQUET-DALE FISHING SONGS._
    Now first collected by a North-Country Angler, with the Music of the
    Airs. 8vo, 5s.


 _THE ANGLER'S COMPANION TO THE RIVERS AND LOCHS OF SCOTLAND._
    By T. T. STODDART. With Map of the Fishing Streams and Lakes of
    Scotland. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.

"Indispensable in all time to come as the very strength and grace of an
angler's tackle and equipment in Scotland, must and will be STODDART'S
ANGLER'S COMPANION."--_Blackwood's Magazine._


 _RELIGION IN COMMON LIFE_:
    A Sermon preached in Crathie Church, October 14, 1855, before Her
    Majesty the Queen and Prince Albert. By the REV. JOHN CAIRD, D.D.
    Published by Her Majesty's Command. Bound in cloth, 8d. Cheap
    Edition, 3d.


 _SERMONS._
    By the REV. JOHN CAIRD, D.D., Professor of Divinity in the
    University of Glasgow, and one of Her Majesty's Chaplains for
    Scotland. In Crown 8vo, 5s. This Edition includes the Sermon on
    'Religion in Common Life,' preached in Crathie Church, Oct. 1855,
    before Her Majesty the Queen and the late Prince Consort.

"They are noble sermons; and we are not sure but that, with the
cultivated reader, they will gain rather than lose by being read, not
heard. There is a thoughtfulness and depth about them which can hardly
be appreciated, unless when they are studied at leisure; and there are
so many sentences so felicitously expressed that we should grudge being
hurried away from them by a rapid speaker, without being allowed to
enjoy them a second time."--_Fraser's Magazine._


 _THE BOOK OF JOB._
    By the late REV. GEORGE CROLY, LL.D., Rector of St Stephen's,
    Walbrook. With a Memoir of the Author by his SON. Fcap. 8vo, 4s.


 _LECTURES IN DIVINITY._
    By the late REV. GEORGE HILL, D.D., Principal of St Mary's College,
    St Andrews. Stereotyped Edition. 8vo, 14s.

"I am not sure if I can recommend a more complete manual of
Divinity."--_Dr Chalmers._


 _THE MOTHER'S LEGACIE TO HER UNBORNE CHILDE._
    By MRS ELIZABETH JOCELINE. Edited by the Very Rev. Principal LEE.
    32mo, 4s. 6d.

"This beautiful and touching legacie."--_Athenæum._

"A delightful monument of the piety and high feeling of a truly noble
mother."--_Morning Advertiser._


 _ANALYSTS AND CRITICAL INTERPRETATION OF THE HEBREW TEXT OF THE BOOK OF
    GENESIS._ Preceded by a Hebrew Grammar, and Dissertations on the
    Genuineness of the Pentateuch, and on the Structure of the Hebrew
    Language. By the REV. WILLIAM PAUL, A.M. 8vo, 18s.


 _PRAYERS FOR SOCIAL AND FAMILY WORSHIP._
    Prepared by a COMMITTEE OF THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF THE CHURCH OF
    SCOTLAND, and specially designed for the use of Soldiers, Sailors,
    Colonists, Sojourners in India, and other Persons, at Home or
    Abroad, who are deprived of the Ordinary Services of a Christian
    Ministry. _Published by Authority of the Committee._ Third Edition.
    In Crown 8vo, bound in cloth, 4s.


 _PRAYERS FOR SOCIAL AND FAMILY WORSHIP._
    Being a Cheap Edition of the above. Fcap. 8vo, 1s. 6d.


 _THE CHRISTIAN LIFE_,
    In its Origin, Progress, and Perfection. By the VERY REV. E. B.
    RAMSAY, LL.D., F.R.S.E., Dean of the Diocese of Edinburgh. Crown
    8vo, 9s.


 _THEISM: THE WITNESS OF REASON AND NATURE TO AN ALL-WISE AND BENEFICENT
    CREATOR._ By the REV. JOHN TULLOCH, D.D., Principal and Professor of
    Theology, St Mary's College, St Andrews; and one of Her Majesty's
    Chaplains in Ordinary in Scotland. In 1 vol. 8vo, 10s. 6d.


 _ON THE ORIGIN AND CONNECTION OF THE GOSPELS OF MATTHEW, MARK, AND
    LUKE_; With Synopsis of Parallel Passages, and Critical Notes. By
    JAMES SMITH, Esq. of Jordanhill, F.R.S., Author of the 'Voyage and
    Shipwreck of St Paul.' Medium 8vo, 16s.


 _INSTITUTES OF METAPHYSIC: THE THEORY OF KNOWING AND BEING._
    By JAMES F. FERRIER, A.B. Oxon., Professor of Moral Philosophy and
    Political Economy, St Andrews. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 10s. 6d.

"We have no doubt, however, that the subtlety and depth of metaphysical
genius which his work betrays, its rare display of rigorous and
consistent reasonings, and the inimitable precision and beauty of its
style on almost every page, must secure for it a distinguished place in
the history of philosophical discussion."--_Tulloch's Burnett Prize
Treatise._


 _LECTURES ON METAPHYSICS._
    By SIR WILLIAM HAMILTON, Bart., Professor of Logic and Metaphysics
    in the University of Edinburgh. Edited by the Rev. H. L. MANSEL,
    B.D., LL.D., Waynflete Professor of Moral and Metaphysical
    Philosophy, Oxford; and JOHN VEITCH, M.A., Professor of Logic,
    Rhetoric, and Metaphysics, St Andrews. Third Edition. 2 vols. 8vo,
    24s.


 _LECTURES ON LOGIC._
    By SIR WILLIAM HAMILTON, Bart. Edited by Professors MANSEL and
    VEITCH. In 2 vols., 24s.


 _THORNDALE; OR, THE CONFLICT OF OPINIONS._
    By WILLIAM SMITH, Author of 'A Discourse on Ethics,' &c. Second
    Edition. Crown 8vo, 10s. 6d.

"The subjects treated of, and the style--always chaste and beautiful,
often attractively grand--in which they are clothed, will not fail to
secure the attention of the class for whom the work is avowedly
written.... It deals with many of those higher forms of speculation
characteristic of the cultivated minds of the age."--_North British
Review._


 _GRAVENHURST; OR, THOUGHTS ON GOOD AND EVIL._
    By WILLIAM SMITH, Author of 'Thorndale,' &c. In Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

"One of those rare books which, being filled with noble and beautiful
thoughts, deserves an attentive and thoughtful perusal."--_Westminster
Review._


 _A DISCOURSE ON ETHICS OF THE SCHOOL OF PALEY._
    By WILLIAM SMITH, Author of 'Thorndale.' 8vo, 4s.


 _ON THE INFLUENCE EXERTED BY THE MIND OVER THE BODY_,
    in the Production and Removal of Morbid and Anomalous Conditions of
    the Animal Economy. By JOHN GLEN, M.A. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.


 _DESCARTES ON THE METHOD OF RIGHTLY CONDUCTING THE REASON_,
    and Seeking Truth in the Sciences. Translated from the French. 12mo,
    2s.


 _DESCARTES' MEDITATIONS, AND SELECTIONS FROM HIS PRINCIPLES OF
    PHILOSOPHY._ Translated from the Latin. 12mo, 3s.


 _SPECULATIVE PHILOSOPHY:_
    An INTRODUCTORY LECTURE delivered at the Opening of the Class of
    Logic and Rhetoric in the University of Glasgow, Nov. 1, 1864. By
    JOHN VEITCH, M.A., Professor of Logic and Rhetoric in the University
    of Glasgow. 1s.


 _CORNELIUS O'DOWD UPON MEN AND WOMEN, AND OTHER THINGS IN GENERAL._
    Originally published in 'Blackwood's Magazine.' 3 vols. Crown 8vo,
    31s. 6d.

"The flashes of the author's wit must not blind us to the ripeness of
his wisdom, nor the general playfulness of his O'Dowderies allow us to
forget the ample evidence that underneath them lurks one of the most
earnest and observant spirits of the present time."--_Daily Review._

"In truth one of the most delightful volumes of personal reminiscence it
has ever been our fortune to peruse."--_Globe._




_RECENT PUBLICATIONS._


 =THE INCREASE OF FAITH=,
    _Contents_--1. Of the Nature of Faith. 2. Of the Aspirations of the
    Believer for Increase of Faith. 3. That Faith is capable of
    Increase. 4. Of Faith's Increase: What it is. 5. Of Faith as the
    Gift of God. 6. Of the Means of Faith's Increase. 7. Of the
    Hindrances to Faith's Increase. 8. Of the Assurance of Grace and
    Salvation. 9. Of Faith made Perfect. Price 3s. 6d.


 =NATURAL THEOLOGY=:
    AN INQUIRY INTO THE FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF RELIGIOUS, MORAL, AND
    POLITICAL SCIENCE. By W. R. PIRIE, D.D., Professor of Divinity and
    Church History in the University of Aberdeen.


 =EUCHOLOGION; OR, BOOK OF PRAYERS=:
    Being Forms of Worship issued by the Church Service Society. Price
    6s. 6d.


 =THE FATHERHOOD OF GOD=,
    CONSIDERED IN ITS GENERAL AND SPECIAL ASPECTS, AND PARTICULARLY
    IN RELATION TO THE ATONEMENT; WITH A REVIEW OF RECENT SPECULATIONS
    ON THE SUBJECT. By THOMAS J. CRAWFORD, D.D., Professor of
    Divinity in the University of Edinburgh. Second Edition, revised and
    enlarged, with a Reply to the Strictures of Dr Candlish. Price 7s.
    6d.


 =THE RESURRECTION OF JESUS CHRIST=:
    With an Examination of the Speculations of Strauss in his 'New Life
    of Jesus,' and an Introductory View of the present position of
    Theological Inquiry in reference to the Existence of God, and the
    Miraculous Evidence of Christianity. By ROBERT MACPHERSON, D.D.,
    Professor of Theology in the University of Aberdeen. Price 9s.


 =PRAYERS FOR SOCIAL AND FAMILY WORSHIP.=
    For the use of Soldiers, Sailors, Colonists, Sojourners in India,
    and other Persons, at home and abroad, who are deprived of the
    ordinary services of a Christian Ministry; also, Prayers and
    Thanksgivings on particular occasions. Third Edition, Crown octavo,
    4s. Cheap Edition, 1s. 6d. Another Edition, on toned paper, 2s. 6d.


 =FAMILY PRAYERS=,
    As authorised by the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland; to
    which is prefixed a Pastoral Letter from the General Assembly on
    Family Worship. Price 4s. 6d. Also a People's Edition, 2s.




MESSRS BLACKWOOD AND SONS'
_RECENT PUBLICATIONS._




 =THE HISTORY OF SCOTLAND=,
    FROM AGRICOLA'S INVASION TO THE REVOLUTION OF 1688. By JOHN HILL
    BURTON. To be completed in 6 vols. demy 8vo. Vols. I. to IV., price
    56s.

"The best account that has yet been written of the national life and
being of Scotland."--_Times._

"One of the completest histories that we ever saw of any
country."--_Saturday Review._

"Not only the most complete and trustworthy history of Scotland yet
written, but it will merit a high place among the historical works of
our age."--_Daily News._

"A great contribution to historical literature."--_Scotsman._

"We do not remember to have read so reticent, so calm and dispassionate
a history."--_Blackwood's Magazine._

"Une grande et belle histoire."--_Revue des Deux Mondes._

"This admirable book."--_Morning Herald._


 =COUNT MONTALEMBERT'S HISTORY OF THE MONKS=
    OF THE WEST. 5 vols. 8vo, £2, 12s. 6d. The volumes just published
    (III. to V.), contain the History of the Conversion of England by
    the Monks, and may be had as a complete book, price 31s. 6d.

"On the whole, the intellectual interest of the Count's 'Monks of the
West' rests mainly on this, that it is the work of a brilliant and
accomplished layman and man of the world, dealing with a class of
characters who have generally been left to the arid professional
handling of ecclesiastical writers. Montalembert sees their life as a
whole, and a human whole; and, with all his zeal as an amateur
hagiographer, he cannot but view them with some of the independence of a
mind trained to letters and politics."--_Pall Mall Gazette._


 =THE HANDY ROYAL ATLAS.=
    By ALEX. KEITH JOHNSTON, LL.D. &c., Author of the 'Royal Atlas,' the
    'Physical Atlas,' &c. 45 Maps, clearly printed and carefully
    coloured, with General Index. Imperial quarto, price £2, 12s. 6d.,
    half-bound morocco.

"Is probably the best work of the kind now published."--_Times._

"Not only are the present territorial adjustments duly registered in all
these maps, but the latest discoveries in Central Asia, in Africa, and
America have been delineated with laborious fidelity. Indeed the ample
illustration of recent discovery, and of the great groups of
dependencies on the British Crown, renders Dr Johnston's the best of all
Atlases for English use."--_Pall Mall Gazette._

"He has given us in a portable form geography posted to the last
discovery and the last Revolution."--_Saturday Review._

"This is Mr Keith Johnston's admirable Royal Atlas diminished in bulk
and scale so as to be perhaps, fairly entitled to the name of 'handy,'
but still not so much diminished but what it constitutes an accurate and
useful general Atlas for ordinary households."--_Spectator._

"The 'Handy Atlas' is thoroughly deserving of its name. Not only does it
contain the latest information, but its size and arrangement render it
perfect as a book of reference."--_Standard._


 =THE HANDY HORSE-BOOK=;
    OR, PRACTICAL INSTRUCTIONS IN RIDING, DRIVING, AND THE GENERAL CARE
    AND MANAGEMENT OF HORSES. By a CAVALRY OFFICER. A New Edition, with
    Six Engravings, 4s. 6d.

"As cavalry officer, hunting horseman, coach proprietor, whip, and
steeplechase rider, the author has had long and various experience in
the management of horses, and he now gives us the cream of his
information."--_Athenæum._

"He propounds no theories, but embodies in simple untechnical language
what he has learned practically."--_Sporting Gazette._


 =PHYSIOLOGY AT THE FARM, IN REARING AND=
    FEEDING THE LIVE STOCK. By WILLIAM SELLER, M.D. F.R.S.E., and HENRY
    STEPHENS, F.R.S.E. Octavo, 16s.


 =CATTLE AND CATTLE-BREEDERS.=
    By WILLIAM M'COMBIE, Tillyfour. _Contents_--I. The Feeding of
    Cattle, &c. II. Reminiscences. III. The Cattle Trade, then and now.
    IV. Black polled Aberdeen and Angus Cattle and Shorthorns. V. Hints
    on the Breeding and Care of Cattle. Price 5s.


 =HANDY BOOK OF METEOROLOGY.=
    By ALEXANDER BUCHAN, Secretary of the Scottish Meteorological
    Society. Crown 8vo, 4s. 6d.

"A very handy book this, for in its small compass Mr Buchan has stored
more and later information than exists in any volume with which we are
acquainted."--_Symon's Meteorological Magazine._


 =GEOLOGY FOR GENERAL READERS.=
    A SERIES OF POPULAR SKETCHES IN GEOLOGY AND PALÆONTOLOGY. By DAVID
    PAGE, LL.D. F.R.S.E. F.G.S. Second Edition, containing several New
    Chapters. Price 6s.

"Few of our handbooks of popular science can be said to have greater or
more decisive merit than those of Mr Page on Geology and Palæontology.
They are clear and vigorous in style, they never oppress the reader with
a pedantic display of learning, nor overwhelm him with a pompous and
superfluous terminology; and they have the happy art of taking him
straightway to the face of nature herself, instead of leading him by the
tortuous and bewildering paths of technical system and artificial
classification."--_Saturday Review._

"This is one of the best of Mr Page's many good books. It is written in
a flowing popular style. Without illustration or any extraneous aid, the
narrative must prove attractive to any intelligent reader."--_Geological
Magazine._


 =HANDY BOOK OF THE FLOWER GARDEN=,
    BEING PLAIN PRACTICAL DIRECTIONS FOR THE PROPAGATION, CULTURE, AND
    ARRANGEMENT OF PLANTS IN FLOWER-GARDENS ALL THE YEAR ROUND;
    embracing all classes of Gardens, from the largest to the smallest;
    with Engraved Plans, illustrative of the various systems of Grouping
    in Beds and Borders. By DAVID THOMSON, Archerfield Gardens, Author
    of a 'Practical Treatise on the Culture of the Pine-Apple.' In Crown
    8vo.


 =ON THE TREATMENT OF OUR DOMESTICATED DOGS.=
    By "MAGENTA," Author of the 'Handy Horse Book.'     [_In the Press._


      VOLS. III. and IV. of
 =MR KINGLAKE'S HISTORY OF THE INVASION OF=
    THE CRIMEA. With numerous Maps, Plans, and Diagrams.
                                                        [_In the Press._


 =LAKE VICTORIA=:
    A NARRATIVE OF EXPLORATIONS IN SEARCH OF THE SOURCE OF THE NILE.
    Compiled from the Memoirs of Captains SPEKE and GRANT.
    By GEORGE C. SWAYNE, M.A., Late Fellow of Corpus Christi College,
    Oxford. Crown 8vo, with Engravings, price 7s. 6d.


 =THE LIFE OF ST COLUMBA=,
    APOSTLE OF CALEDONIA. Reprinted from the 'Monks of the West.' By the
    COUNT DE MONTALEMBERT. Crown, 3s. 6d.


 =MEMOIR OF WILLIAM E. AYTOUN, D.C.L.=,
    Author of 'Lays of the Scottish Cavaliers,' &c. By THEODORE MARTIN.
    With Portrait. Post 8vo, 12s.

"This biography is quite a model in its way, and a delightful relief
after much that has been done of late years in a similar line. Good
taste, right feeling, and a generous but seldom excessive appreciation
of the subject, mark the work."--_Manchester Guardian._


 =THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS=:
    WINCHESTER--WESTMINSTER--SHREWSBURY--HARROW--RUGBY. Notes of their
    History and Traditions. By the Author of 'ETONIANA.' Crown 8vo, 8s.
    6d.


 =ON PRIMARY INSTRUCTION IN RELATION TO EDUCATION.=
    By SIMON S. LAURIE, A.M., Author of 'Philosophy of Ethics,' &c.
    Crown 8vo, 4s. 6d.


 =CAPTAIN SHERARD OSBORN'S WORKS.=
    Uniform Edition. In 3 vols. Sold separately.

    Vol. I. STRAY LEAVES FROM AN ARCTIC JOURNAL; OR, EIGHTEEN MONTHS IN
    THE POLAR REGIONS IN SEARCH OF SIR JOHN FRANKLIN, IN THE YEARS
    1850-51. THE CAREER, LAST VOYAGE, AND FATE OF SIR JOHN FRANKLIN. 5s.

    Vol. II. THE DISCOVERY OF A NORTH-WEST PASSAGE BY H.M.S.
    INVESTIGATOR, CAPTAIN R. M'CLURE, DURING THE YEARS 1850-54. 5s.

    Vol. III. QUEDAH; OR, STRAY LEAVES FROM A JOURNAL IN MALAYAN WATERS.
    A CRUISE IN JAPANESE WATERS. THE FIGHT OF THE PEIHO IN 1859. 7s. 6d.


 =MEMOIR OF SIR WILLIAM HAMILTON, BART.=
    Professor of Logic and Metaphysics in the University of Edinburgh.
    By PROFESSOR VEITCH, of the University of Glasgow.
                                                        [_In the Press._


 =LECTURES ON THE EARLY GREEK PHILOSOPHY=,
    AND OTHER PHILOSOPHIC REMAINS OF PROFESSOR FERRIER OF ST ANDREWS.
    Edited by SIR ALEX. GRANT and PROFESSOR LUSHINGTON. 2 vols. post
    8vo, 24s.


"These lectures, in so far as they treat of Greek philosophy down to
Plato, have been carefully elaborated, and are of much value--of higher
value, indeed, than any writings on the same subject in the English
language; and in point of clearness, depth, and resolute search after
truth, and tenacious hold of it when found, we doubt if they are
surpassed in any language.... For our part, we do not know any
philosophical writings so fascinating to a young student of philosophy
as these early pages."--_Scotsman._


 =THE WORKS OF SIR WILLIAM HAMILTON, BART.=,
    Professor of Logic and Metaphysics in the University of Edinburgh.

    LECTURES ON METAPHYSICS. Edited by the REV. H. L. MANSEL, B.D.
    LL.D., Waynflete Professor of Moral and Metaphysical Philosophy,
    Oxford; and JOHN VEITCH, M.A., Professor of Logic and Rhetoric in
    the University of Glasgow. Third Edition. 2 vols. 8vo, 24s.

    LECTURES ON LOGIC. Edited by the Same. Second Edition. 2 vols. 8vo,
    24s.

    DISCUSSIONS ON PHILOSOPHY AND LITERATURE, EDUCATION AND UNIVERSITY
    REFORM. Third Edition. 8vo, price 21s.


 =MR WORSLEY'S TRANSLATION OF HOMER INTO=
    ENGLISH VERSE IN THE SPENSERIAN STANZA.

    ODYSSEY, 2 vols., 18s. ILIAD, Books I.-XII., 10s. 6d.


           COMPLETION OF MR WORSLEY'S TRANSLATION OF THE ILIAD.
                       BY PROFESSOR CONINGTON.


 =THE ILIAD OF HOMER.=
    Books XIII. to XXIV. Translated into English Verse in the Spenserian
    Stanza. By JOHN CONINGTON, M.A., Corpus Professor of Latin in the
    University of Oxford.


 =FAUST: A DRAMATIC POEM.=
    By GOETHE. Translated into English Verse by THEODORE MARTIN. Second
    Edition, post octavo, price 6s.


"The best translation of 'Faust' in verse we have yet had in
England."--_Spectator._

"Mr Theodore Martin's translation is unquestionably the best in the
language, and will give to English readers a fair idea of the greatest
of modern poems."--_Press._





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Catalogue of Messrs Blackwood and
Sons' Publications, by Various

